# Code structure

## Statements

* Statements are syntax constructs and commands that perform actions.
* We’ve already seen a statement, `alert('Hello, world!')`, which shows the message “Hello, world!”.
* We can have as many statements in our code as we want. Statements can be separated with a semicolon.
* For example, here we split “Hello World” into two alerts:
    `alert('Hello'); alert('World');`
* Usually, statements are written on separate lines to make the code more readable:

    ```js
        alert('Hello');
        alert('World');
    ```

## Semicolons

* A semicolon may be omitted in most cases when a line break exists.
* This would also work:

    ```ts
    alert('Hello')
    alert('World')
    ```

* Here, JavaScript interprets the line break as an “implicit” semicolon. 
* This is called an automatic semicolon insertion.
  
**In most cases, a newline implies a semicolon. But “in most cases” does not mean “always”!**
* There are cases when a newline does not mean a semicolon. For example:

    ```ts
        alert(3 +
        1
        * 2);
    ```

* The code outputs 6 because JavaScript does not insert semicolons here. 
* It is intuitively obvious that if the line ends with a plus "+", 
    * then it is an “incomplete expression”, 
    * so a semicolon there would be incorrect. 
* And in this case, that works as intended.

**But there are situations where JavaScript “fails” to assume a semicolon where it is really needed.**
* Errors which occur in such cases are quite hard to find and fix.

# JavaScript Comments

* JavaScript comments can be used to explain JavaScript code, and to make it more readable.
* JavaScript comments can also be used to prevent execution, when testing alternative code.

```js
// single Line Comment

// Multi 
// Line 
// Comment

/*
Multi
Line 
Comment
*/
```



# “use strict”

* The directive looks like a string: `"use strict"` or `'use strict'`. 
* When it is located at the top of a script, the whole script works the “modern” way.

For example:

```js
"use strict";

// this code works the modern way
...

```

* Please make sure that `"use strict"` is at the top of your scripts, otherwise strict mode may not be enabled.

* There’s no way to cancel use strict
* There is no directive like "no use strict" that reverts the engine to old behavior.
* Once we enter strict mode, there’s no going back.

## `"use strict"` in Browser console

* When you use a developer console to run code, 
  * please note that it doesn’t use strict by default.

* Sometimes, 
  * when use strict makes a difference, 
  * you’ll get incorrect results.

* So, how to actually use strict in the console?

* First, 
  * you can try to press `Shift+Enter` to input multiple lines, 
  * and put use strict on top, like this:

* you can try to press `Shift+Enter` to input multiple lines



```js
'use strict'; 
<Shift+Enter for a newline>
//  ...your code
<Enter to run the code>
```

## Should we “use strict”?

* The question may sound obvious, but it’s not so.

* One could recommend to start scripts with "use strict"… But you know what’s cool?

* Modern JavaScript supports “classes” and “modules” – advanced language structures (we’ll surely get to them), that enable use strict automatically. 
* **So we don’t need to add the "use strict" directive, if we use them.**