# topic wise

1. An introduction
   1. An Introduction to JavaScript
   2. Manuals and specifications
   3. Code editors
   4. Developer console
2. JavaScript Fundamentals
   1. Hello, world!
   2. Code structure
   3. The modern mode, "use strict"
   4. Variables
   5. Data types
   6. Interaction: alert, prompt, confirm
   7. Type Conversions
   8. Basic operators, maths
   9. Comparisons
   10. Conditional branching: if, '?'
   11. Logical operators
   12. Nullish coalescing operator '??'
   13. Loops: while and for
   14. The "switch" statement
   15. Functions
   16. Function expressions
   17. Arrow functions, the basics
   18. JavaScript specials
3. Code quality
   1. Debugging in the browser
   2. Coding Style
   3. Comments
   4. Ninja code
   5. Automated testing with Mocha
   6. Polyfills and transpilers
4. Objects: the basics
   1. Objects
   2. Object references and copying
   3. Garbage collection
   4. Object methods, "this"
   5. Constructor, operator "new"
   6. Optional chaining '?.'
   7. Symbol type
   8. Object to primitive conversion
5. Data types
   1. Methods of primitives
   2. Numbers
   3. Strings
   4. Arrays
   5. Array methods
   6. Iterables
   7. Map and Set
   8. WeakMap and WeakSet
   9. Object.keys, values, entries
   10. Destructuring assignment
   11. Date and time
   12. JSON methods, toJSON
6. Advanced working with functions
    1. Recursion and stack
    2. Rest parameters and spread syntax
    3. Variable scope, closure
    4. The old "var"
    5. Global object
    6. Function object, NFE
    7. The "new Function" syntax
    8. Scheduling: setTimeout and setInterval
    9. Decorators and forwarding, call/apply
    10. Function binding
    11. Arrow functions revisited
7. Object properties configuration
   1. Property flags and descriptors
   2. Property getters and setters
8. Prototypes, inheritance
   1. Prototypal inheritance
   2. F.prototype
   3. Native prototypes
   4. Prototype methods, objects without `__proto__`
9. Classes
   1. Class basic syntax
   2. Class inheritance
   3. Static properties and methods
   4. Private and protected properties and methods
   5. Extending built-in classes
   6. Class checking: "instanceof"
   7. Mixins
10. Error handling
    1. Error handling, "try...catch"
    2. Custom errors, extending Error
11. Promises, async/await
    1. Introduction: callbacks
    2. Promise
    3. Promises chaining
    4. Error handling with promises
    5. Promise API
    6. Promisification
    7. Microtasks
    8. Async/await
12. Generators, advanced iteration
    1. Generators
    2. Async iteration and generators
13. Modules
    1. Modules, introduction
    2. Export and Import
    3. Dynamic imports
14. Miscellaneous
    1. Proxy and Reflect
    2. Eval: run a code string
    3. Currying
    4. Reference Type
    5. BigInt
    6. Unicode, String internals
15. Document
    1. Browser environment, specs
    2. DOM tree
    3. Walking the DOM
    4. Searching: getElement*, querySelector*
    5. Node properties: type, tag and contents
    6. Attributes and properties
    7. Modifying the document
    8. Styles and classes
    9. Element size and scrolling
    10. Window sizes and scrolling
    11. Coordinates
16. Introduction to Events
    1. Introduction to browser events
    2. Bubbling and capturing
    3. Event delegation
    4. Browser default actions
    5. Dispatching custom events
17. UI Events
    1. Mouse events
    2. Moving the mouse: mouseover/out, mouseenter/leave
    3. Drag'n'Drop with mouse events
    4. Pointer events
    5. Keyboard: keydown and keyup
    6. Scrolling
18. Forms, controls
    1. Form properties and methods
    2. Focusing: focus/blur
    3. Events: change, input, cut, copy, paste
    4. Forms: event and method submit
19. Document and resource loading
    1. Page: DOMContentLoaded, load, beforeunload, unload
    2. Scripts: async, defer
    3. Resource loading: onload and onerror
20. Miscellaneous
    1. Mutation observer
    2. Selection and Range
    3. Event loop: microtasks and macrotasks
21. Frames and windows
    1. Popups and window methods
    2. Cross-window communication
    3. The clickjacking attack
22. Binary data, files
    1. ArrayBuffer, binary arrays
    2. TextDecoder and TextEncoder
    3. Blob
    4. File and FileReader
23. Network requests
    1. Fetch
    2. FormData
    3. Fetch: Download progress
    4. Fetch: Abort
    5. Fetch: Cross-Origin Requests
    6. Fetch API
    7. URL objects
    8. XMLHttpRequest
    9. Resumable file upload
    10. Long polling
    11. WebSocket
    12. Server Sent Events
24. Storing data in the browser
    1. Cookies, document.cookie
    2. LocalStorage, sessionStorage
    3. IndexedDB
25. Animation
    1. Bezier curve
    2. CSS-animations
    3. JavaScript animations
26. Web components
    1. From the orbital height
    2. Custom elements
    3. Shadow DOM
    4. Template element
    5. Shadow DOM slots, composition
    6. Shadow DOM styling
    7. Shadow DOM and events
27. Regular expressions
    1. Patterns and flags
    2. Character classes
    3. Unicode: flag "u" and class \p{...}
    4. Anchors: string start ^ and end $
    5. Multiline mode of anchors ^ $, flag "m"
    6. Word boundary: \b
    7. Escaping, special characters
    8. Sets and ranges [...]
    9. Quantifiers +, *, ? and {n}
    10. Greedy and lazy quantifiers
    11. Capturing groups
    12. Backreferences in pattern: \N and `\k<name>`
    13. Alternation (OR) |
    14. Lookahead and lookbehind
    15. Catastrophic backtracking
    16. Sticky flag "y", searching at position
    17. Methods of RegExp and String
