# JavaScript Comments

* JavaScript comments can be used to explain JavaScript code, and to make it more readable.
* JavaScript comments can also be used to prevent execution, when testing alternative code.

```js
// single Line Comment

// Multi 
// Line 
// Comment

/*
Multi
Line 
Comment
*/
```

# variable :-

* A variable is a “named storage” for data.
* To create a variable in JavaScript, use the `let/var/const` keyword.
  
## syntax

### Variable Declaration

**syntax**:-

```js
varName ; // it is similar as "var varName ;"
var varName ;
let varName ;
```

**Example**:-

```js
carName1;
var carName2;
let carName3;
```

### Variable Initialization

**syntax**:-

```js
varName = value;
```

**Example**:-

```js
carName1= "Volvo";
carName2= "BMW";
carName3= "Maruti";
```

### Variable Declaration and Initialization

**syntax**:-

```js
varName = value ; // it is similar as "var varName = value ;"
var varName = value ;
let varName = value ;
const varName = value ;
```

**Example**:-

```js
carName0= "Volvo";
var carName1= "Honda";
let carName2= "BMW";
const carName3= "Maruti";
```

### Multi-Variable Declaration and Initialization in a single-Line or Multi-Line

```js

let name = 'Abhay'

let user = 'John', age = 25, message = 'Hello';
That might seem shorter, but we don’t recommend it. For the sake of better readability, please use a single line per variable.

// The multiline variant is a bit longer, but easier to read:

let user = 'John';
let age = 25;
let message = 'Hello';
// Some people also define multiple variables in this multiline style:

let user = 'John',
  age = 25,
  message = 'Hello';
// …Or even in the “comma-first” style:

let user = 'John'
  , age = 25
  , message = 'Hello';

// Technically, all these variants do the same thing. 
// So, it’s a matter of personal taste and aesthetics.

```

## Variable naming

* **There are three limitations on variable names in JavaScript:**
  1. The name must contain only letters, digits, or the symbols $ and _.
  2. The first character must not be a digit.
  3. variable Name should not be Reserve Keywords

* **Case matters**
  * Variables named apple and APPLE are two different variables.

* **Non-Latin letters are allowed, but not recommended**
  * It is possible to use any language, including cyrillic letters, Chinese logograms and so on, like this:
  
```js
let userName;
let test123;
let $ = 1; // declared a variable with the name "$"
let _ = 2; // and now a variable with the name "_"
alert($ + _); // 3

// incorrect variable
let 1a; // cannot start with a digit
let my-name; // hyphens '-' aren't allowed in the name

// Non-Latin letters are allowed, but not recommended
let имя = '...';
let 我 = '...';

const COLOR_RED = "#F00";
const COLOR_GREEN = "#0F0";
const COLOR_BLUE = "#00F";
const COLOR_ORANGE = "#FF7F00";

// ...when we need to pick a color
let color = COLOR_ORANGE;
alert(color); // #FF7F00
```

## const vs let vs var

* var
  * we can declare the variable with var.
  * we can initialize the variable which is already declared with var.
  * we can declare and initialize the variable with var.
  * we can re-declare the variable which is already declared with var.
  * we can re-initialize the variable which is already declared and initialize with var.
  * we can re-declare and re-initialize the variable which is already declared and initialize with var.

* let
  * we can declare the variable with let.
  * we can initialize the variable which is already declared with let.
  * we can declare and initialize the variable with let.
  * we can-not re-declare the variable which is already declared with let.
  * we can re-initialize the variable which is already declared and initialize with let.
  * we can-not re-declare and re-initialize the variable which is already declared and initialize with let.

* const
  * we can-not declare the variable with const.
  * we can-not initialize the variable which is already declared with const.
  * we can declare and initialize the variable with const.
  * we can-not re-declare the variable which is already declared with const.
  * we can-not re-initialize the variable which is already declared and initialize with const.
  * we can-not re-declare and re-initialize the variable which is already declared and initialize with const.

### shot notes :- Differ between var , let and const

* var
  * Variable Declaration :- ✔
  * Variable Initialization :- ✔
  * Variable Declaration and Initialization :- ✔
  * Variable Re-Declaration :- ✔
  * Variable Re-Initialization :- ✔
  * Variable Re-Declaration and Re-Initialization :- ✔
* let
  * Variable Declaration :- ✔
  * Variable Initialization :- ✔
  * Variable Declaration and Initialization :- ✔
  * Variable Re-Declaration :- ❌
  * Variable Re-Initialization :- ✔
  * Variable Re-Declaration and Re-Initialization :- ❌
* const
  * Variable Declaration :- ❌
  * Variable Initialization :- ❌
  * Variable Declaration and Initialization :- ✔
  * Variable Re-Declaration :- ❌
  * Variable Re-Initialization :- ❌
  * Variable Re-Declaration and Re-Initialization :- ❌

## Reuse or create?

* And the last note.
  * There are some lazy programmers
    * who, instead of declaring new variables, tend to reuse existing ones.

* As a result,
  * wtheir variables are like boxes into which people throw different things without changing their stickers.
  * What’s inside the box now? Who knows? We need to come closer and check.

* Such programmers
  * save a little bit on variable declaration
  * but lose ten times more on debugging.

* **An extra variable is good, not evil.**

* Modern JavaScript minifiers and browsers optimize code well enough,
  * so it won’t create performance issues.
* Using different variables for different values can even help the engine optimize your code.

# Naming Convwntion

* **lowercase** :-
  * file names
    * ex:- flower.jpg
* **camelCase** :-  
  * variable
    * ex:- dogName , userName
  * functions
    * ex:- dogName() , userDetail()
* **isCamelCase / areCamelCase / hasCamelCase** :-
  * booleans
    * ex:- isBark  , areIdeal , hasOwner
* **snake_case**
* **PascalCase** :-
  * class
    * ex:- DogCartoon  
  * components
    * ex:-

      ```ts
        // bad
        function dogCartoon(roles) { 
          return ( 
            <div> 
              <span> Dog Name: { roles.dogName } </span> 
              <span> Owner Name: { roles.ownerName } </span> 
            </div> 
          );
        } 

        // good
        function DogCartoon(roles) { 
          return ( 
            <div> 
              <span> Dog Name: { roles.dogName } </span> 
              <span> Owner Name: { roles.ownerName } </span> 
            </div> 
          );
        }
      ```

      ```html
      <div> 
        <DogCartoon 
          roles={{ dogName: 'Scooby-Doo', ownerName: 'Shaggy' }} 
        />
      </div>
      ```

* **hyphens-case**
* **UPPER_CASE_SNAKE_CASE** :-
  * constants
    * ex:- MOVABLE  , DAYS_UNTIL_TOMORROW
